An API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of rules that allows different
software systems to communicate over a network (typically the internet). It acts as an
interface between two programs, enabling them to exchange data using standard protocols
like HTTP/HTTPS.

Types of API Requests
 GET Request → Used to retrieve data (e.g., weather information)
 POST Request → Used to send data (e.g., subscribing to a newsletter using
Mailchimp)

After a request, the server returns a response containing data and a status code.

REST Api uses the HTTP protocols like get, put, post, delete

We can explore an API's documentation using Postman
Just put the api link in the GET request in Postman

An API request consists of a Base URL, Endpoint, and Parameters.
A client (your server) sends a request to another server through a public API to retrieve or
send data.

API Endpoints
An endpoint is a specific path that provides access to a resource.
Structure:
BaseURL/Endpoint
Examples:
/random
/filter
So a complete request becomes: https://bored-api.appbrewery.com/random

wihtout the endpoint it gives the complete content in HTML 

A random endpoint is designed to return a single item (or a small set of items) chosen unpredictably from a larger collection.
{
    "activity": "Start a book you've never gotten around to reading",
    "availability": 0.1,
    "type": "relaxation",
    "participants": 1,
    "price": 0.1,
    "accessibility": "Few to no challenges",
    "duration": "minutes",
    "kidFriendly": true,
    "link": "",
    "key": "7114122"
}

A filter is usually a set of instructions added to an existing endpoint to narrow down a large list of data based on specific criteria.
Field: What you are looking at (e.g., status, price).
Operator: The logic used (e.g., "equals", "greater than", "contains").
Value: The specific criteria (e.g., "active", "100"). 
this is like the select query is sql.

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data format used to store and transfer
data over networks. It is commonly used in APIs to send and receive data between servers
and applications.

Although JSON looks similar to a JavaScript object, there are key differences:
 In JSON, all keys must be strings (enclosed in double quotes)
 JSON is a text-based data format.
 In JavaScript objects, keys may be written without quotes if they are valid identifiers,
whereas in JSON all keys must be enclosed in double quotes.

JSON example :-
{
&quot;name&quot;: &quot;John&quot;,
&quot;age&quot;: 21
}

JSON Visualizer
JSON data can be viewed and formatted using tools like:
https://jsonviewer.stack.hu/
This helps in reading and understanding complex JSON data.

JSON Object to String - use .stringify()
JSON String to Object - use .parse()

Axios is a popular HTTP client library used to make API requests from a Node.js server.
It allows the server to communicate with external APIs and fetch or send data.

npm install axios

Making a Request
Axios can be used to send requests such as GET and POST.

import axios from "axios";

//Funciton Definition 
async function fetchData() {
const response = await axios.get("https://api.example.com/data");
console.log(response.data);
}

//Funciton Call
fetchData();

How It Works
 The server sends a request using Axios
 The external API processes the request
 The API returns a response (usually JSON)
 Axios provides the data in response.data